(upbeat music)
Gone as some CSS real quick,
we want this pizza grid to show up
where they're side by side,
and then additionally I'm gonna show you
something called CSS Subgrid which is fairly new to CSS,
at least at time of recording.
And it's going to be a perfect example
of why we need subgrids.
So, let's open up this pizza list.js,
and let's make a pizza grid style.
So const pizza grid styles is equal to styled.div,
and then we wanna auto import our styled
from styled components,
and in here we'll say display grid.
Grid template columns,
repeat auto-fill.
Then I'll say min max,
minimum I want them to be 300 pixels wide
and maximum I want them to be one FR, one free space unit.
So give that a save and then we'll go ahead
and pop this grid in so right here
where we have our pizza list component,
this div is gonna be replaced with the open
and a close pizza grid styles.
I see now they're starting to show up side by side,
we probably want some grid gap.
Actually, I think we could just use gap now 4rem
cause they added a gap to Flexbox,
so you don't need to say grid dash gap
and if you're supporting the latest browsers,
you can just go ahead and start to use gap.
Then we'll also do the rows.
So, here is the problem with the CSS Grid
that we have right now,
so they're not always lining up perfectly.
You see that the images are not always
like cropped the exact same way
and this is pretty common thing where you get
a client uploading files,
and then also sometimes the toppings right here
will be two lines and then nothing is lined up
and that's really annoying.
So, what we wanna do is we wanna specify
the rows of the grid.
So, row one is going to be the title,
row two will be the ingredients
and row three will be the actual photo of the pizza,
and then we start again.
And now we're not gonna explicitly state those rows
because those are automatically generated rows in CSS Grid,
so we can specify the automatically generated sizes
by saying grid auto rows and we'll say auto,
so the title will be auto height,
the toppings will be auto height,
and then the image will be 500 pixels high.
Okay, so now we see it like that didn't do anything
and the reason behind that is because
we've put the rows on the pizza grid
that surrounds all of the pizzas.
However, the items that we really want to align
are not direct children of our grid,
they are children of a single pizza.
So, this is our grid,
but the items that we want to align
are h2, the paragraph, and the image.
So what we need to do is we need to tell
the h2, the paragraph and the image
to align themselves not based on this,
but based on the parent and that is what Subgrid is.
Subgrid is where children of another child
will align themselves to a grand parent grid.
And actually, I just see one quick issue I have here,
this link tag should be only surrounding the h2,
not the paragraph and the image.
So make sure that you open and close
the link around this h2 tag here.
Okay, now what we'll do is we'll make another style
for a single pizza,
so we'll say const pizza styles,
sequence a style.div.
Then inside of here we'll say display grid again,
and then we'll take this pizza styles
and surround each single pizza
in a open and close pizza style tag.
Okay, so that is starting to work
but now you see another problem that we have is
the height of the pizza image
is not necessarily always the same,
and then we get this like weird, like look at this,
the weird alignment.
This has always been a bit of a shortfall of CSS Grid.
So what we can do here is say grid template rows subgrid,
and what that means we'll put a little comment,
take your row sizing not from the pizza styles div,
but from the, what was this one called?
Pizza styles grid, grid.
And so again, this has nothing to do
with the style components,
this is just a CSS Grid thing which is really cool.
So, give that a save, okay.(laughs)
So now it's looking a little bit funky,
we got a little bit more to do,
we need to say grid row span three,
so meaning that each of these pizzas needs
to span three rows in our CSS Grid.
Here we go, and then we say grid gap, 1rem,
and because we're inheriting the gap from this one now,
we need to overwrite that with this one here.
I'll say h2 and paragraph, margin zero,
take that margin off of each of those.
All right, that's looking pretty good
and now you see how responsive it is.
And as we get smaller,
the images are always going to be the same.
So that's a perfect use case for CSS Subgrid,
now if you're using Chrome,
at least that time of recording, doesn't support Subgrid so,
we can do a little bit of sort of backup
for browsers that don't support Subgrid.
We can just, let's go right above this.
And I'll say add supports,
so this is a CSS thing where you say if it supports
or if it does not support in our case,
and you can just give it a bit of CSS
and say grid template rows sub grid.
So, basically what we can do here is we can say,
hey, take this CSS try run it.
If it doesn't work, then run this backup right here.
So we'll say, grid, template rows, auto auto 1fr,
and that will give us a nice little backup for CSS Grid.
And we can actually even go a little bit further
and change this to a CSS variable,
where instead of saying this we can say,
dash dash rows is equal to auto auto 1fr.
And then we can go here where we actually specify the rows,
say where variable is equal to the rows or Subgrid,
and what this does is to say,
check if this variable exist,
otherwise fall back to this value of Subgrid.
So now it's a little bit confusing,
it's probably maybe the first time
you've ever run into CSS upgrade but,
I ran into that when I was building this and I was like,
this is the perfect use case for CSS Subgrid.
So that's showing up now,
let's get into building our toppings picker.